Thank you, Rinpoche. I was wondering, Rinpoche, if you would give us a little more detailed
instruction on how to do Tonglen practice and how to merge that or combine that with Dzogchen
meditation.
"Tonglen" practices and that is, I mean, "Tonglen" in the Tibetan word "Tonglen" which means "Tong"
means giving, "Ling" means receiving, so that is the word meaning of "Tonglen".
Now, what you do is then you are giving your joy, peace, happiness or healing energy to the others.
If we have anyone that is designated or particular to focus, think of that person and then as well
as every living.
There is money, similar big street. That person is not just alone, there are so many, even though
we don't know, but there is so many and as well as everyone.
So really we kind of think every that way and so we give them our healing energy, all the good
deeds and all that and then whatever they are suffering and having difficulties and you taking that
in, in and giving that, that.
So that is really known as "Tonglen" practices. "Tonglen" practice.
Where you do this is the great Master Puthavadhi.
He said, very famous Kadampa Master, Aditya disciples said that you do that with breathing.
When you do exhale, you take all the joy, healing energy and power that what you have or your merit
really sending out, out to give it that.
When you inhale, then you are taking all those difficulties, troubles, whatever that is, through
your power of compassion, loving kindness that you are taking in that.
So that is really basically "Tonglen" practices.
When you do these things, then maybe do that five minutes, ten minutes, whatever you do, after that
, then go to the zoki level, zoki level, then same thing meditating and meditating and relaxing our
mind in a natural state.
So that means who is doing that? Who is doing that?
Your two. Subject and object activates all emptiness. There is nothing really substantial, solid,
existing, that conquered, existing.
All is illusion. That all started from your mind and then mind is empty and then relaxing in that
natural state.
The state is without any conceptual thought, this and that thing. So that is like zoki, resting
your mind in a zoki state at the end or the final state.
And with the visualization, is the breath a certain color or how do we visualize the beings?
I didn't really show or I didn't heard from the great masters any particularly colors and that when
we do the exchanging or this "Tonglen" practices that is not that ideal.
So I am also really happy to think. I mean, many great masters said that we like to highlight
someone that is then individually that kind of like really setting your energy and breath with the
breathings.
With the breathings to that person, all illnesses have to use the breathing.
Just think, send that to that individually, remove that kind of immediately, that kind of ease
their troubles.
And same time you are taking in that to you. So then this troubles out of the suffering difficulty.
Plus then we hold, because extending the both each other, all the sentient beings preform that
suffering.
And then in the deep down breathing system, only the cause of those troubles made that never came
out and completely removed.
And cause of those troubles of the suffering, when Buddha told the suffering truth, cause of
suffering truth, then what is the cause of suffering?
Suffering. Cause of suffering is the karma and the emotions.
Karma and the emotions, those are known as the cause of suffering truth.
And what is caused by the karma then is emotion. So deep down is negative emotion.
Negative emotion is really the cause of our activities.
And then suffering is unkindly, unpresent. Therefore that cause must be unpresent.
And therefore what is that cause? Is that negative emotion? Anger, attachment, or combination? Of
course anger is there.
So that is, so which really that also goes away. Those are really kind of extended thoughts and I
think that's it.
Thank you.